Add blog post about the 100% PSP coverage. (#55)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/01/mutating-policy-behave-as-validating.md

---

> title: Kubewarden has policies to cover all the Kubernetes Pod Security Policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kubewarden policies cover all the Kubernetes Pod Security Policies.
```

authors:
	- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-01-31
---

> We at the Kubewarden team has been doing an effort to allow our users to have
> policies equivalent for all the deprecated Pod Security Policies (PSP).
> So, we wrote policies to replicate the same validations available in the Kubernetes
> PSPs. During this work, we counted on the community help to map and validate
> the policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden team worked tirelessly to create equivalent Kubewarden policies for all the deprecated Pod Security Policies (PSP). In order to reach this very important milestone, the team wrote the policies with the same validations available in the Kubernetes PSPs, and we counted on the community help to map and validate the policies.

This will allow our users to continue using the policies they have enforced in their Kubernetes clusters, and avoid any downtimes or security issues.
```

Reviewer: While the first paragraph you might take it as is, the second one can be modified to emphasize which real advantages the users have by using Kubewarden policies and which risks they mitigate (I put two examples).

> Since Kubewarden controller <version-placeholder> and Policy Server version
> <version-placeholder>, Kubewarden users have policies which replace all the PSPs!
> All the them can be found in the Policy Hub looking for the keyword "PSP".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubewarden policies which replace all the Kubernetes PSPs, are available with the following components releases:
- Kubewarden controller <version-placeholder>
- Policy Server version <version-placeholder>

The Kubewarden policies are all located in the Policy Hub, and you can find them by typing the keyword "PSP".
```

> You may are thinking: why do I need to a specific versions to have all PSP policies?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may be thinking: why do I need to have a specific version of all the PSP policies?
```

Author: Your suggestion makes me think that I need policies in specific versions. Which is not true. The components that required a minimum version is the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server. The policies version does not matter.  However, I original question is confusing as well... Let me change that.

> Actually, depending on what you would like to do, you do not need that. Let me
> explain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Before the version mentioned previously in this text. If a policy mutate a
> request and its "mutating" configuration field is 'true', the policy server
> always accept the request.  However, this is not in-line with PSP. Users
> should be able to reject a request if a mutation happen. To solve this issue,
> we change the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server to allow the user
> configure a mutating policy to behave like a validating one. If you do not need
> that, you can use the policies in previous Kubewarden versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The answer is related to "requests mutation". Let me explain.

In the previous versions of Kubewarden Policy Server, if a policy mutated a request by setting the configuration field `mutating` to 'true', the policy server would always accept the request and this behavior is not aligned with the Kubernetes PSP validation. 

Instead, you should be able to reject a request even if a mutation happens. To solve this misalignment, the team changed the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server to allow you configure a mutating policy to behave like a validated one. And if you don't need it, you can use the policies in previous Kubewarden versions.
```

Reviewer: I adapted the sentences, however review it as the meaning might have changed from what you wanted.

Author: I think that meaning is not quite right. The policy does not mutate the "mutating" field. The mutating field is a policy configuration . What I was trying to say is that if the policy **is** configured as "mutating" **and** this policy mutate a request (does not matter what field it mutate), the request is accepted. Let me adapt your sentence for I what I would like to say.

> Since these changes, when the user mark a policy as "mutating" (setting 'true'
> in the "mutating" field in the ClusterAdmissionPolicy resource) everything work
> as the before, mutated requests will be accepted. But when the user deploy a
> policy which mutates requests and set the "mutating" field to `false`, mutated
> requests are going to be rejected. This means that Kubewarden now not only have
> policies which cover 100% of the deprecated PSPs, but they behave the same of
> what a PSP users expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server versions update, if you mark a policy as "mutating" (setting 'true'
in the "mutating" field in the ClusterAdmissionPolicy resource), the mutated requests will be accepted. And if you deploy a policy which mutates requests with the "mutating" field set to `false`, the requests will be rejected. 

This means Kubewarden now have policies which cover 100% of the deprecated PSPs, and they behave the same way than the PSP policies.
```

> Thanks for the community for helping us to spot missing policies and the
> discrepancies among Kubernetes PSP and Kubewarden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the community for helping the team spot missing policies and the discrepancies between the Kubernetes PSPs and Kubewarden policies. The combined work is what made Kubewarden reach this important milestone.
```

This will allow our users to replace deprecated PSPs while continuing to enforce
their security rules.

The Kubewarden policies which replace all the Kubernetes PSPs, are available
in the Policy Hub, and you can find them by typing the keyword "PSP". And, to
have the exact same behavior of the Kubernetes PSPs is necessary a minimum version
for some of the Kubewarden components, which are:
- Kubewarden controller <version-placeholder>
- Policy Server version <version-placeholder>

You may are thinking: why do I need to use these specific versions?

The answer is related to "requests mutation". Let me explain.

In the previous versions of Kubewarden Policy Server, if a policy mutated a
request and it's configured as a "mutating" policy, the Policy Server would
always accept the request and this behavior is not aligned with the Kubernetes
PSP validation.

Instead, you should be able to reject a request even if a mutation happens.
To solve this misalignment, the team changed the Kubewarden controller and
Policy Server to allow you configure a mutating policy to behave like a
validated one. But if you don't need it, you can use the policies in previous
Kubewarden versions as well.

> Since the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server versions update, if you mark
> a policy as "mutating" (setting `true` in the "mutating" field in the
> ClusterAdmissionPolicy resource), the mutated requests will be accepted as before.
> In the other hand, if you deploy a policy which mutates requests with the
> "mutating" field set to `false`, the requests will be rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Kubewarden controller and Policy Server versions update, if you mark
a policy as "mutating" (setting `true` in the "mutating" field in the
`ClusterAdmissionPolicy` resource), the mutated requests will be accepted as before.
In the other hand, if you deploy a policy which mutates requests with the
"mutating" field set to `false`, the requests will be rejected.
```
